In a previous lesson we have created questions table to hold all questions for our application.
Now in this lesson we're going to pre populate our tables with some fake data programmatically
by combining model factories and database seed.
All right before we move on
let's head over to our terminal and then create new branch by saying git
checkout -b
And then the branch name will be lesson-3. Ups
Check out check out.
OK now we are in lesson 3 branch and we're ready to go.
All right
let's go to database factories folder and here
we'll find user factory dot php
If we open up this file
It contains factory definition.
Factories are basically designed to allow us to quickly build out fake models and they are often used
for two purposes
testing and database seeding
If you remember in the previous project we utilize eloquent or query builder.
But now in this project we'll utilize model factories.
OK
so this factory define needs two arguments
the first one is the model name which in this case user user model.
And the second argument is callback that defines the data that goes in columns. The callback inject instance
of faker library which you may already know allows as to conveniently generate various kinds of random
data for testing and seeding purposes. And inside this  Callbeck it returns an array consist of a column
with the value pairs.
So basically here we can define which column will be filled with a certain value. We can fill the name
with
let's say John like so but of course we need various names for different users
right?
That's why we utilize Faker for name and email.
All right here here in this file
we could define a new factory definition for our question model but I think it would be better to organize
in a single factory file for a single model.
So let's jump to our terminal
and create new factory by typing php artisan make
factory and then the factory name will be question
factory hit return.
Now that's open the question factory and define factory definition for our
Question model.
Here in the first perimeter let's change to question model
inside the callback let's change this empty array
here
let's set the title column
with random sentences faker sentences sentence like so and we'll have five to ten sentences in this
case
rand 5 to 10 and to remove the dot in the end I'll wrap this in php
rtrim helper rtrim and then specify a dot in
the second argument.
So let me show it to you.
I'll open tinker.
And here I'll say use Faker Factory
Then I'll create faker instance faker
equals factory create.
Now if I generate sentence
you'll see it's always end with dot.
Now I'll wrap this with rtrim and pass the dot here.
Ups rtrim
and now the dot no longer there
right?
OK next
let's set the body column with some paragraphs
three to seven paragraphs randomly
and because paragraphs will return value in array by default
so we need to pass through value in the second argument
This will convert it into a string.
So let me show you again.
I'll go to tinker and here
if I type faker paragraphs
You'll see it's in array
but when I passed let's say three and passed through in the second argument
Now it's in a string and it's perhaps separated by a new line ok
Now let's also set set number of question viewed
So views
and here let's make random number between 0 to 10. Let's do the same thing to answers and votes.
So duplicate this line
and change to answers
duplicate one more time
and change to votes.
Here the votes can be negative
so let's change the first argument to let's say  -3.
Sorry I missed comma here
OK
I think that all we need to do in this question factory.
Now we can insert some records into our database using our defined factories by calling laravel factory
helper function.
For now let's try that in thinker.
And here we can call factory specify the class name let's say App user class and the number of data
that will be created is three.
In my case. Closing the parenthesis and to actually create the user model we need to end this with create
method call hit return.
Here we have three records as we defined in the second argument of factory helper calling.
And here we also have three users with different name and email.
So here we just passing user model in the first argument.
In factory helper function call instead of use or factory and Laravel will recognize that we want generate
some data that defined in user factory.
Now instead of calling the factory helper function in tinker let's put that database seeder so that
we don't need to enter to tinker whenever we want to generate or regenerate some data.